README.md, before:

# winfo

A simple command-line utility to display weather information from wunderground.

# Installation

The script uses Python 2; no other external libraries are needed. Simply copy
the script somewhere in your path, then `chmod +x`. You must also set up your
profile for the script to use (see the configuration section below for details).

# Usage

`winfo` aims to be incredibly simple to use: after your profile is set up,
running `winfo -f <profile>` will fetch new weather data, and `winfo <profile>`
will display the data. If no profile is specified, then 'default' is used.

Two other command-line options, `-h` and `-v`, are available for showing help
and version information (respectively).

## wprofile

This script is provided to help managing profiles. If, for example, you often
travel between Chicago and New York City, and have profiles `chicago.json` and
`nyc.json` for these, `wprofile` can help to switch between these locations.
Running `wprofile chicago` will symlink `chicago.json` to `default.json`,
displaying the chicago data by default. `wprofile` also accepts an optional
target name to use instead of 'default'.

# Configuration

Configuration for `winfo` is done via JSON profiles stored in
`~/.config/winfo/*.profile`. Each profile must contain a features array, a query
location, a devkey developer's key from
[wunderground](http://www.wunderground.com/weather/api), and a format to print
the output as. The features and query that are available, along with variables
to print in the format string, are specified in the [API
documentation](http://www.wunderground.com/weather/api/d/docs?d=data/index).

To see examples, read the `default.json` included in this repo.

## features

This must be a JSON array listing all the features that you want to download
from wunderground (e.g. "conditions", "geolookup", etc.).

## query

This specifies the location to use for weather information. There are a variety
of options here, including postal code or state/city. Look at wunderground's
documentation for all the possibilities.

## devkey

In order to use this, you must get a developer's key from wunderground. It's
pretty easy to do, and free for low-volume usage.

## format

The format string is what `winfo` will print when it is run. It can contain
plain text and any escape characters supported by JSON. In addition, any strings
enclosed in percent signs (%) will be substituted with the wunderground data
corresponding to that string, where forward slashes (/) denote nested levels in
the data.

For example, the string `%current_observation/weather%,
%current_observation/temp_f% F` might be printed out as `Scattered Clouds, 71.0
F`.

In order to use a literal percent, escape it with a backslash (e.g. '\%').

# Copyright

Copyright (c) 2014 Brian Kubisiak <velentr.rc@gmail.com>

Comments, complaints, suggestions, etc. are all welcome.

# TODO

- [x] extend format strings to allow arbitrary categories
- [x] write scripts for managing profiles
- [x] document wprofile script
- [ ] fix getopt in wprofile to allow args in any order
- [ ] better documentation

Commit message:

Allow multiple profiles to use the same data.
The profile file now allows a 'download' string that specifies where to download
and read the data. This allows multiple profiles to be active without having to
download for both of them.

Also, the fetch option will cause the data to be printed after downloading. A
new '-q' option suppresses output to reverse this behavior.

README.md, after:

# winfo

A simple command-line utility to display weather information from wunderground.

# Installation

The script uses Python 2; no other external libraries are needed. Simply copy
the script somewhere in your path, then `chmod +x`. You must also set up your
profile for the script to use (see the configuration section below for details).

# Usage

`winfo` aims to be incredibly simple to use: after your profile is set up,
running `winfo -f <profile>` will fetch new weather data before printing it, and
`winfo <profile>` will display the data. To fetch data without printing it, run
`winfo -f -q`. If no profile is specified, then 'default' is used.

Two other command-line options, `-h` and `-v`, are available for showing help
and version information (respectively).

## wprofile

This script is provided to help managing profiles. If, for example, you often
travel between Chicago and New York City, and have profiles `chicago.json` and
`nyc.json` for these, `wprofile` can help to switch between these locations.
Running `wprofile chicago` will symlink `chicago.json` to `default.json`,
displaying the chicago data by default. `wprofile` also accepts an optional
target name to use instead of 'default'.

# Configuration

Configuration for `winfo` is done via JSON profiles stored in
`~/.config/winfo/*.profile`. Each profile must contain a features array, a query
location, a devkey developer's key from
[wunderground](http://www.wunderground.com/weather/api), and a format to print
the output as. The features and query that are available, along with variables
to print in the format string, are specified in the [API
documentation](http://www.wunderground.com/weather/api/d/docs?d=data/index).
Optionally, the profile may contain a download string, to allow multiple
profiles to read the same downloaded data.

To see examples, read the `default.json` included in this repo.

## features

This must be a JSON array listing all the features that you want to download
from wunderground (e.g. "conditions", "geolookup", etc.).

## query

This specifies the location to use for weather information. There are a variety
of options here, including postal code or state/city. Look at wunderground's
documentation for all the possibilities.

## devkey

In order to use this, you must get a developer's key from wunderground. It's
pretty easy to do, and free for low-volume usage.

## format

The format string is what `winfo` will print when it is run. It can contain
plain text and any escape characters supported by JSON. In addition, any strings
enclosed in percent signs (%) will be substituted with the wunderground data
corresponding to that string, where forward slashes (/) denote nested levels in
the data.

For example, the string `%current_observation/weather%,
%current_observation/temp_f% F` might be printed out as `Scattered Clouds, 71.0
F`.

In order to use a literal percent, escape it with a backslash (e.g. '\%').

## download

By default, the profile `~/.config/winfo/prof.json` will download and read data
from `~/.cache/winfo/prof.json`. However, if the download string is set in the
profile (e.g. `"download": "output"`), then `winfo` will download and read data
from `~/.cache/winfo/output.json`. This allows multiple profiles to share the
same downloaded data.

# Copyright

Copyright (c) 2014 Brian Kubisiak <velentr.rc@gmail.com>

Comments, complaints, suggestions, etc. are all welcome.

# TODO

- [x] extend format strings to allow arbitrary categories
- [x] write scripts for managing profiles
- [x] document wprofile script
- [ ] fix getopt in wprofile to allow args in any order
- [ ] better documentation
